October 7, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    Ted has begun contacting a few of the vendors we've found that deal with Islandora, since it's starting to look like the better bet
for the needs of our project. For now Raj is continuing to research DSpace, while I'm still looking into Islandora. Reggie has set up an AWS
account that will let us set up the servers we need to build our instances of the systems once we start working on them.

October 14, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Regenal Grant, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    For the presentation on the 16th/18th, I've successfully set up the simplest version of the Islandora software, a virtual box
instancewhich is only accessible on my computer. We've had some difficulty with getting consistant attendance with all team members
(including myself), but generally we seem to be on track for the presentation. Ted has been in contact with a couple of vendors, and
we're planning to set up another meeting with our client, Amy, to discuss our progress and choose whether to continue to pursue DSpace or
not.

 
October 21, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Regenal Grant, Theodore Ryan

    I am attempting to set up a single site instance of Islandora. Raj is continuing to research the details of its use. We are planning to
to meet with our client later this month or early next month. Other than this there is not much significant progress this week.
 

October 28, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    Ted has received contant from a number of potnetial providers for Islandora. He's received a number of specifications about the
system. Most of the information that he has received indicates that it will indeed be a good choice for our project. He hasn't heard
as much about the prices yet.
    The setup of a single site instance of Islandora has been slow and generally unsuccessful. The documentation appears to be fairly
out of date, and there are many compatibility issues with the different background programs that need to be installed on a server in
order for Islandora to run.

November 4, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    There was a miscommunication in arranging our meeting with Amy, which is mostly my fault. She has indicated to us that we should end
our consideration of DSpace, however, so we are focusing on Islandora. It continues to be slow progress on the Islandora implementation.
 
November 11, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Regenal Grant, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan
 
    Documentation for the installation of Islandora was updated and completely revamped over the weekend. We have lost a fair amount of
progress in this facet of our project. However, though we've only just started reading the new documentation, it looks much more
streamlined, and importantly up to date, than before. The prospects of getting a working system are looking better than before.

November 18, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Regenal Grant, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    Ted has heard back from a few more clients. He has a few tenetive quotes on a price for an externally hosted Islandora system,
somewhere around the range of $10,000 a year.
    Implementation of the Islandora server has been generally successful. The setup now works excellently. The only major issue that has
come up is the lack of real SSL certificates/domain names to be used in the acutal implementation of the system. We are looking at a few
options for how to circumnavigate this issue for our final presentation, though for the actual product that we are recommending to our
client it is not an issue since real SSL certificates/domain names will be simple to set up.

November 25, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Regenal Grant, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    Implementation of the Islandora server has been halted. An unfortunate miscommunication about the budget of the project has caused
the AWS account we were using for the servers to be shut down. While it is no longer possible to actually implement the real single site
Islandora instance, we are still confident in presenting it as the correct product for our client Amy to use in the database she is
attempting to have made.
    We are planning to meet with her next week to give her our final presentaiton of her product and get her feedback as to the success/
failure of our project in its entirety.

December 2, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Regenal Grant, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    Raj has set up our presentation for Amy this week. We have filled out the PowerPoint which will be used for both this presentation
and our final presentation next week. We've also started filling out our final report in a join document.

December 9, 2018
Present: Raj Bhetwal, Regenal Grant, Augustine Maddox, Theodore Ryan

    We presented all of our findings to our client. Her overall reaction was positive. It looks like Reggie will be going forward in this
project next semester, using Islandora to set up a database for the school. We are generally recommending that they use real on-site
servers, rather than AWS, because it is better to have more control over the availability of the resources, and it is a pretty plausible
with few servers, so little if any would be saved by going though AWS. It would also require the hiring of personel to run/maintain the 
system, which is an important consideration.
    We have mostly finished the final report, which will be done by the time we present on Thursday. Our slideshow needs a few
adjustments, but it will also be easily ready by then. After that our role in the project is over.

